Polycom Development Project's Talking Box Initiative System
Overview
In the pursuit of achieving the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, community development and sustainable change, the Polycom Development Project in Kibra introduced a transformative initiative known as the "Talking Box" program. This manual program, where community members articulate their challenges in handwritten descriptions, has proven effective in collecting valuable data for advocacy and issue resolution. To enhance the effectiveness, inclusivity, and efficiency of this program, this project aims to digitalize the "Talking Box" program by developing a user-friendly website. The digital platform will enable community members to report their issues, reducing reliance on physical documentation and expanding accessibility to those unable to access the physical boxes in the area. The objectives include assessing the current manual system, developing a user-friendly website, and establishing a database to store reported issues. The digitalization not only addresses environmental concerns by reducing paper usage but also facilitates quicker responses to urgent issues, creating a more connected and responsive future for the community’s challenges.

Objective
To develop a digital system for the Talking Box Program that will enable the reporting of issues faced by community members, help in the tracking of the statuses of the reported issues, notify members via SMS or email whenever there is progress on their reported issue, provide safe storage for reported issues, help the organisation with issue assigning, tracking and analysis to make the initiative more effective and helpful to the community.

Justification
Making a website for the Talking Box program will not only reduce the amount of paper used in writing the problems’ descriptions but also increase the reach to members of the community who may not have access to the physical boxes or have time to stop by Polycom’s office to present their problems. It will also save time since information can be obtained at any time rather than waiting for the times when the descriptions are collected from the different physical points and taken to the office for action. Urgent problem cases reported could also be addressed promptly since the information will get to the organization faster.
